readme.md, before:

# Hive Arena 2025

A friendly AI competition for the Hive students!

## Running the arena

- Install the Go compiler (for instance `brew install go` on MacOS, or `apt install golang-go` or `snap install go` on Ubuntu, or follow instructions from the official website).
- Run `go run ./server`. Optionally add the `-p <port>` option to select which port should the server listen on.

The server is now ready to host games. Multiple games can run concurrently.

In addition to the API routes to be used programmatically, the `/status` route shows information about all currently running games, and `/history` contains JSON reports of past completed games.

## Using the provided agent templates

Example agents are provided in Lua and Go. These templates abstract the network communication and let you implement a simple callback that receives the current game state, and expects a list of commands to play for the turn.

That allows you to focus on the logic of your agent instead of the implementation details.

See readme files in each directory.

## Developing agents in other languages

To start an agent from scratch, you will need to implement the network protocol yourself. An agent should:

- be able to open HTTP connections (both GET and POST methods)
- read or convert JSON payloads
- optionally open a websocket connection

See the [API definition](docs/API.md) for all the necessary routes. An agent has to:

- join a game on the arena server (`/joingame` route)
- once per turn: poll the current game state (`/game` route), and send back orders for the units (`/orders` route) within 2 seconds of the turn's start
- optionally, to avoid polling the state too often, or missing a turn, the agent can also listen to the game's websocket (`/ws` route), which informs in realtime when a new turn begins

## License

The Hive Arena source code is Copyright (c) Hive Helsinki 2025, and released under the MIT License

Commit message:

Added git revision printing at startup

readme.md, after:

# Hive Arena 2025

A friendly AI competition for the Hive students!

## Running the arena

- Install the Go compiler (for instance `brew install go` on MacOS, or `apt install golang-go` or `snap install go` on Ubuntu, or follow instructions from the official website).
- Run `go run ./server`. Optionally add the `-p <port>` option to select which port should the server listen on.

The server is now ready to host games. Multiple games can run concurrently.

In addition to the API routes to be used programmatically, the `/status` route shows information about all currently running games, and `/history` contains JSON reports of past completed games.

## Building for production

Building an executable with `go build -C server .` will embed the git revision and the executable will print it at startup. Note that the server looks for the `map` directory in the current working directory, so it can be run from the repo root as `./server/server -p port`.

## Using the provided agent templates

Example agents are provided in Lua and Go. These templates abstract the network communication and let you implement a simple callback that receives the current game state, and expects a list of commands to play for the turn.

That allows you to focus on the logic of your agent instead of the implementation details.

See readme files in each directory.

## Developing agents in other languages

To start an agent from scratch, you will need to implement the network protocol yourself. An agent should:

- be able to open HTTP connections (both GET and POST methods)
- read or convert JSON payloads
- optionally open a websocket connection

See the [API definition](docs/API.md) for all the necessary routes. An agent has to:

- join a game on the arena server (`/joingame` route)
- once per turn: poll the current game state (`/game` route), and send back orders for the units (`/orders` route) within 2 seconds of the turn's start
- optionally, to avoid polling the state too often, or missing a turn, the agent can also listen to the game's websocket (`/ws` route), which informs in realtime when a new turn begins

## License

The Hive Arena source code is Copyright (c) Hive Helsinki 2025, and released under the MIT License
